# Summary on articles
## "MongoDB queries don't always return all matching documents!". The author is David Glasser
* The main finding or observation made by the article is around the Mongo DB quries which might not return results from all matching documents while writing to documents in parallel. This is due to the fact the MongoDb is constructed to provide consistency over single document and not across collection of documents. While multiple client tries to access and update the mongoDb, there is a chance of such behavior, and it outlines, this happens only queries based on indexes. Key learning is that, this can be avoided by taking a $snapshot before running the query might resolve. In general using MongoDb has trade-off between consistency and performance, since this query language is designed for performance it takes a fair decision to focus on timely result. From the article it is good to understand such a short coming with Mongo DB and hence it can be considered while designing the system and making queries which requires these use-case can be reviewed to avoid such errors. 

## Big data is dead by Jordan Tigani
* The articles speaks about the current data trend, its growth and how it is heading towards a dead end of not being able to make use of it. And highlight the basic definition of what big data and small data is, where they are utilized and how they are formulated, stored. Author emphaises on the bigquery which is a toolset available for analysing small data which helps to make use of the available volume of data in more practical manner. The author lines out the reliability of the small-data compared to the practical difficulties of cultivating the big data is better way. The big data is more realiable for using in training models and can be used as data set for such purpose. It helps to understand the complexity is handling and maintaining the big data with the resource constrains, helped me realize the importance of small data and how it is simpler and cost effective to maintain and manage the small data and it being very purposeful against the needs. 

## Kubernetes failure stories
* This is accumulated stories on the failure and shortcoming encountered while deploying, few things I learnt is, the DNS failure how it impacts a Kubernetes ecosystem, and how CPU throttling could be bottleneck and how it can be improved by getting rid of CPU limits. Highlights the issues encountered by Zalando during the course of kubernetes, and how it can backfire with some misconfiguration. It helps as a dictionary for future references to read more about kubernetes user experiences and industrial failures encountered, haven't got the chance to read through and see all the videos. 

## Andersson, J., & Norrman, F. (2020). Container Orchestration: the Migration Path to Kubernetes
* This book highlights the challenges encoutered in migrating towards kubernetes, and highlightes the complexities involved because of huge options and configurations, features. This makes the beginning complex. The articles highlights recommendations on how the migration needs to be handled in smaller chunks and workloads in order make it achievable and scalable as they get more familar with platform as they encounter the perks and way of working and expertise and development community getting used to platform. 
* Learnt how to manage communication between stakeholders and other involved in the migration inorder to make it more effective and achievable. 
* Understood the importance of maintenance and support required post migration which is a key for having seemless operation, it is not just a infrastructure migration it is basically a platform which needs to be updated. 



## Kubernetes exercise
### Kuberebetes services
* Kubernetes provides 4 services, against various usecases, such as ClusterIP, NodePort, Load Balancer and ExternalName. ClusterIP provides ability to expose a service using VirtualIP address, NodePort provides capability to expose a service in a node within a cluster with a static port. Load balancer utilizes load balancer in the cloud provides to provide or expose a service externally. External Name helps to map a service to a external DNS name. 

### It is recommended to start Services before the Containers they refer to. Why?
* The reason behind this, is to avoid overloading the kubernetes cluster, and to have the services available for clusters to consume before start using them. Also I think it makes sense in to have such start-up order to have easier deployment and management of the pods. In this mechanism, there are init containers who are initialized in the pods to help and facilitate the features available for other containers to consumer during the runtime. 